# Library-Website

This is a project I got given to me in my second year of college.We were told to make this website a live one where we will locally host is on our machine.I was using XAMPP control panel.I am unaware if I am able to host a live website on my github page but I added all the files from the project including the databse I created from phpMyAdmin.The first step to starting this project I decided to make the database first. I created 4 tables(users,books,category,reserved).All these tables are connected using one to one or many to one relationships.After adding data constraints,primary keys and foreign keys to my databse I uploaded it to phpMyAdmin. After I decided to start implementing new pages to my website.I started by creating the index page and register page. The index page only holds the description of what the website does and has some links that branch to the user registering a new account or logging in if they previously have.

Then creating the register page, its just one big form with a couple contraints making sure the user inputs the right data or follows a couple rules. I added a functio that compares the users input password to the users input confirm password to make sure the user chooses and remembers their password. Some other constraints are that the phone number is 10 numbers long and the password must be 6 characters or longer and checks if the username already exists.All this logic and constraints are done server side using php and partially done client side with html.Lastly in this page I added a link so that the user can go back to the index page.When the user registers,I make sure to start a SESSION in php and connect to my databse. After I create a SQL statement to insert the data into the 'user' table into my databse.Once it checks if the data meets the constraints and inserted into the database,then it sends the username the user inputted into the global variable SESSION and then links the user to the books page(the main page where books are shown).

After creating my register page I decided to start making the login page so that the user doesnt have to register every time to enter the website.I used a similar form like the register page but the login page only asks for two inputs,the username and password to the username.After submitting your details to try login, php starts a SESSION so that we can input the username to the global variable. I then used an SQL statement to take the username and password in the database and then checks if a row is brought back from the databse,if so then it sends the username into the global variable SESSION and redirects the user to the books page.If the SQL statement didnt bring back anything then prints username or password is incorrect.

